1. Before I explain what I need to do to access the servers, I have to first explain the concept of SSH keys. 

Access to the SSH server can be done in two ways. 

Via a username and a password 
Via SSH keys 

SSH keys is the best and most secure way to connect to a remote server using SHH. This works like Bluetooth pairing only this time there are keys involved. Key-based authentication works by creating a pair of keys: a private key and a public key. The private key is located on the client machine and is secured and kept secret. The public key can be given to anyone or placed on any server you wish to access. When you attempt to connect using a key-pair, the server will use the public key to create a message for the client computer that can only be read with the private key. The client computer then sends the appropriate response back to the server and the server will know that the client is legitimate. This entire process is done in the background automatically after you set up keys.

These are the steps I will take.

a. ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096
This will create two files "id_rsa" and "id_rsa.pub". The id_rsa.pub file is what is shared with the server.

b. CD into the $HOME/.ssh folder

c. ssh-copy-id remote_host 
This will copy the file while connecting to the server. 


2. The public key file eg. id_rsa.pub is sent to the servers /$USER/.ssh folder using ssh-copy-id remote_host. This file is shared with any device that you want to access via SSH. The Public key will be stored in the server's $HOME/.ssh file. That way when you access the server via SSH (username@ip-address) the keys on your system is compared to the one on the server and if they tally you are allowed access. The public key stores the cryptographic key by which the user system and the sandbox server can compute a shared secret for access.

3. The private key is kept safe in your USER/.ssh folder never to be shared with anyone. Private Key is used for authentication and a symmetric key exchange during establishment of an SSL/TLS session. When you connect to the server the private key is picked up from the file and decrypted using the public key on the server. Once the right key match is made you are allowed access to the server. The private key will encrypt / decrypt connection and messages between me and the sandbox machine ensuring safe use.


